---
layout: post
title: "Mínimo"
image: "/assets/imgs/minimo.png"
image_description: ""
project_number: 0
reading_time: "0:40"
description: "it's Lab & Studio of digital experiments. Created using Jekyll with ♥"
keywords: ["dev"]
categories: ['projects']
id_slug: minimo
author: nicolas_ea
---

Mínimo is a laboratory of digital ideas, with a technological branch
(<a href="{% tl projects %}">Lab</a>) and a creative branch (<a target="_blank" href="{{ site.instagram_username }}">Studio</a>).

<br>

## Index
* <a href="#the-idea">The idea</a>
* <a href="#the-theme">The theme</a>

<div class = "alert alert-info mb-5 text-center" role = "alert">
Mínimo is based on efficiency: In performing
a limited set of things with the highest possible quality and in the simplest possible way.
</div>

## The idea

Mínimo is a "Hub" of digital projects and creators;
a small and efficient digital experimentation laboratory with a specific design philosophy,
a work ethic, and an open but concrete business logic ([see]({% tl manifest%})).

Minimum foresees 2 different stages.

* The <i class="bg-black">FIRST STAGE</i> consists of developing the tools
(templates, libraries, training, work methodologies) that allow the
fast and efficient execution of digital ideas, by an experimentation "core team"
 (programming, UX-Design-Art, Content Creation, Marketing).
 <br><br>
 It focuses on 5 current experiments that will allow us to be self-sustainable
 in a period of 2 years, seeking to innovate in the niches of:
 <br><br>
   * iGaming ([#1 Betizen](/en/2019/3/)).
   * Wellness and health (#2 UpMind).
   * Startups/Online Work-Money (#3 Buscavidas).
   * Hobbies/Retail (#4 TopBeer), experimentation project, without business plan.
   * Dating/Sex Life (#5 Ars).
 <br><br>
 * The <i class="bg-black">SECOND STAGE</i> consists on the expansion or
 elimination of existing projects, in making them independent from the internal
 experimentation team, and in the acquisition of new projects.

 <div class="alert alert-warning text-center mt-5 mb-5" role="alert">
 Based on this model, Mínimo generates and distributes dividends from all projects
 among all its associated creators.
 </div>

 These must meet 5 requirements:

 1. INNOVATION / IMPROVEMENT. Each project must involve an improvement, an innovation or a positive contribution to the niche where it is directed.
 2. SELF-SUSTAINABILITY. While not all projects need to be profit-focused (they may be focused primarily on innovation), they must have the potential to be at least self-sustaining in the [long term]({% tl manifest%} # em-long-term).
 3. PHILOSOPHY / METHOD. Be in tune with the [Mínimo's development philosophy and methodology]({% tl manifest%}).
 4. CUMULATIVE EARNINGS. Accept to receive dividends from other projects, and yield a percentage of their own
 in exchange for collaboration.
 5. SYNERGY. It must be approved by the majority of the creators of the lab,
 so that all projects and their teams have the incentive of collaborating with each other.

Mínimo's objective for each project is that still being part of the lab,
it becomes independent from the internal experimentation team, and have its leader and autonomous team;
without this meaning losing the necessary synergies that make each new project feed on the others.

<br>
## The theme

Mínimo was created using [Jekyll](https://jekyllrb.com/), based on the minimalist template [Thinkspace](https://github.com/heiswayi/thinkspace) from @heiswayi.

We asked ourselves:
What is the minimum amount of resources we must use to tell you this?
What is the exact minimum for the message to arrive without interference?

The result is this multi-language Mínimo theme for Jekyll, [available on Github](https://github.com/minimo-io/minimo) to use for free <i class="fas fa-hand-rock" ></i> Which is the basis of this site.

<br>
