---
layout: post
title: "Our take on advertising"
image_description: ""
reading_time: "6:30"
description: ""
keywords: "advertising, marketing, opinion"
categories: ['opinion']
author: nicolas_ea
---

It is no longer a secret, advertising smells bad. Everybody knows about it. Some people look to each other in silence, thinking it should do something for herself, that it should change.
But let's slow down, what exactly does advertising need to change?

The entire system must be changed, damn it! Yes. The whole thing! Like that! <br> Good good. Quiet little bird. Overcome that revolutionary arrogance and let's talk seriously.

I myself have witnessed the dedication in which a group of intelligent young men and women in a room not particularly big, use all their creativity and talent to justify to themselves, why in the world are they doing what they do, advertising.

But let's start by establishing some common ground. Definitions.

Advertising is the set of techniques by which people and products (today the differentiation is somewhat difficult) try to influence us and our interests.

Marketing is the discipline that tries to understand those interests (let's call them markets) to influence us, after a sale. The exchange of this sale is not necessarily monetary. For example, when a campaigning politician presents us his ideas to improve the city, in the hope that they seem interesting to us and that we vote him. Or when someone (¿far?) less relevant, decides to spend a few dollars on Instagram to viralize the photograph of a cat.

Now "marketing", "advertising" and other similar atrocities, are fashionable english words. But let's throw Vouge out of the window (we'll get it back later). Let's try for a second to stay out of trendy words, and even if it's for pure joy or pride, let´s try to think somewhat deeper.

When we talk about advertising and marketing, we talk about the old and dear ability or inability to influence, to convince.
That is what the politician is looking for (with the hope of a vote) and it is what the cat lover - or not - is also after (with the hope of some of that modern ego boost, the "Like").

So even when the words sound ugly and put us on the defensive, justifiably so (So much so that even the publicists lock themselves in small rooms, away from the account manager, to atone for their faults together), we are talking about something that we all do, more or less consciously. And therefore also do the brands. We could complain about having this irritating need, but it would be like complaining about having two arms instead of four. Very correct for those folks who enjoy to entertain themselves doing so, but as sterile as believing that by writing an article about advertising, something will change.

Back to the subject. Recently a friend tried to convince me to give up buying a Pepsi. It is not something I consume frequently, rather when it occurs to me that I want one. Something like once every fifteen days. He explained to me what he had read about disproportionate amounts of sugar, the problem of diabetes, the immorality of the food industry, etc. We agreed to buy a Diet Coke.
<br>
The choice of whiskey on the other hand went on quite easy, without the slightest interposition of any high moral setbacks.

The point is that he tried to influence me, and that he succeeded. In his eagerness to do so, he used words and concepts that he thought were going to interest me, or at least concepts that were important for him to express before me. In the end he is my friend and I have to believe that he loves me, although every friday night he happily poisons me with whiskey.

If I think about it, yes, in fact I still love my friend, although he sold me his idea and a Diet Coke. Maybe that's precisely why I like him. Now, this didn't bother me because I knew with some degree of certainty that my friend was being honest with me. That authentically the theme of the food industry and the whole thing about carbonated sweet drinks really gave him the creeps, and a those crossed look of his, just waiting to stab the first Pepsi promoter that dares to smile.

The problem with brands is that they are not our friends (sorry for that).
Brands are abstract entities run by people who try, with varying degrees of innocence, to make money.
Entities, say... things loaded with values through which we may or may not identify ourselves.
<i>Per se</i>, there is nothing wrong with that of making some dollars and the fact that some people offering something of value, obtain the resources for them to live with dignity, by giving us something of our interest. Except... Except what?

Well, it all comes down to our ideological prejudices, but let's think for a moment that my friend knew intimately, that the Diet Coke bottle that he managed to "sell" to me along with his idea, is just as poisonous as a Pepsi, and that despite knowing that dirty little fact he recommended it to me anyway (just for the record I am not saying the comparison is real, though... well, let's leave to that).

Then, if for some reason I suspected it, that would make me think. If I confirmed it, that would make me angry. Or at least I would feel disappointed by him. Basically, the important fact would not be to have consumed something that hurt me (I do it all the time and I plan to continue doing so, like the most part of the non-radical majority of this world). The problem is deception.

But what does my friend, me and our whiskey with Diet Coke on a Friday night, have to do with advertising and marketing?

The thing is that the real problem of marketing and advertising is not that they try to influence us.
That is something we all do, to a greater or lesser extent and success, without harming each other for that. Conversely. Surely if I continue to drink whiskeys mixed with Diet Coke, with my friend, on Fridays, I will manage to successfully escape from diabetes (lung cancer caused by his smoking it's a whole different issue; but hey, we can't beat dead all along).

The real problem is when brands that use those tools, try to influence us based on deception. Tools that are for sure more and more powerful as we continue to deepen our knowledge about the brain. The problem is that through deception they try to satisfy their need, not only to make a group of people related to the brand a little bit more wealthy, but for a stupid need of continuous growth, for excessive greed.

Ultimately, the problem is not having the want to influence others. But in wanting to influence everyone, regardless of the consequences.
<br><br>
And advertising and marketing are full of those hoaxes. As much as this world is full of deceitful people.

Advertising deceives when it overwhelms us and interrupts us at every step of the way.
<br>
When it becomes omnipresent without giving us anything in return.
<br>
When their products are harmful in some way or another (as all good things are), but they do not provide us with the necessary information to take care of the problems those product might cause to our health, even if it is something we like so much as a soft drink with popping bubbles and all.
<br>
When they promote an impossible beauty standard for an average human, and at the same time they tell us that we can all achieve it.
<br>
When everyone gets convinced of those aesthetic values ​​and imposes them on the rest.
<br>
When they sell us a personal development model based on the ostentation of fancy things and envy; based on living life comparing ourselves to others under a single idea of beauty or happiness or whatever.
<br>
When they stimulate us to consume constantly. And they have to do it because otherwise their goal of infinite growth could not be met. And without that goal, then the group of people behind the brand (shareholders or partners and employees) would no longer have as much interest in investing in them, nor in working with them.

Yes, advertising and marketing are definitely full of hoaxes. And in this world there is bunch of deceitful folks. But there are also others, like my friend.

Mínimo develops products based on <a href="/en/manifest/">principles</a>. ¡Aha! There you go.

Mínimo creates brands that do not aim at perpetual, excessive growth. Brands that value and promote transparency. Of their earnings; of of their operations, and of their objectives.

Mínimo creates products based on real human needs, (not on unattainable ideals), such as the aspiration of self-esteem, economic and personal growth, the need for entertainment, the expression of sexuality, etc; but warning and being honest about when it is enough. Alerting our users when they are risking their health in the presuit of their interests. Warning our clients when they are on risk and vulnerable of being harmed by the greed of others. When it's time to disconnect. To go out in the sun. To ask for help. To return, at least for a little while, to experience the simplicity and richness of the human experience. Without brands, without products, or marketing, without advertising.
