---
layout: post
title: "Hops"
image: "/assets/imgs/hops-mockup-1-uai-516x954.png"
image_description: ""
reading_time: "1:00"
description: "Discover & buy local beers."
keywords: ["beers", "development"]
categories: ['projects']
author: nicolas_ea
project_number: 2
id_slug: hops
---
<div class="alert alert-warning text-center" role="alert"> We are looking for a Content Manager. Interested?
 <a href="mailto:{{ site.email }}" rel="nofollow"><strong><span class="text-nowrap"><i class="fas fa-hand-point-right mr-1"></i>Let's</span> start the conversation!</strong></a></div>

<br>
## What do we do?
We aim to promote craft beer culture around the world with quality tools and content for breweries, retail stores and end users.
To achieve that goal we created:

An <span class='bg-black text-uppercase'><i class="fa fa-mobile mr-1" aria-hidden="true"></i>APP</span> where you can discover and buy local craft beers that include:

* An open <span class='bg-black text-uppercase'><i class="fas fa-shopping-cart mr-1"></i>STORE</span> for brewers, microbreweries and local retail stores so they can promote and sell their products at a fair price, without having to take care of the technological side of things or customer loyalty.
* <span class='bg-black text-uppercase'><i class="fas fa-medal mr-1"></i>RANKINGS & CATALOGS</span> of beers by country, based on the opinions of the community, so that users can find, discuss and buy their favorite beers, as well as receiving updates on new releases from your favorite breweries.
* A <span class='bg-black text-uppercase'><i class="fas fa-graduation-cap mr-1"></i>SCHOOL</span> for new brewers to learn how to make their own craft beer alongside qualified master local brewers, with proven recipes and methods, and through the exchange with community members.

* <i class="fa fa-plus mr-1" aria-hidden="true"></i>an independent outreach <span class='bg-black text-uppercase'>PUBLICATION</span> created by and for the craft beer scene, featuring brewing articles, events coverage, interviews with local bremasters, discussion of brewing styles and processes.

## Why do we do it?
Alongside with homebrewers and microbreweries grows a community of enthusiasts.

One that favors local economies through the consumption of beer created with a passion for the product itself. One that experiments with new flavors and processes, and one which shares back because it knows that its strength and energy lies in doing so, while increasing the diversity and quality of the general offer.

This is the community that Hops wants to serve with quality tools and information that respects the principles that make more and more people decide for craft beer.

## Who are we?
A bunch of drunks with programming skills <i class="fas fa-grin-beam-sweat"></i>

Actually, Hops was developed by <a href="https://minimo.io"><i class="fas fa-circle mr-1" style="color:black;"></i>Mínimo</a>, a digital ideas lab based in Uruguay, with the initiative of contributing to the strengthening of the craft beer community.

Visit: <i class="fas fa-external-link-square-alt mr-1"></i>[hops.uy](https://hops.uy/)
Follow: <i class="fab fa-instagram-square mr-1"></i>[@hops_uy](https://www.instagram.com/hops_uy/)
